# In Defense of Writing Letters to Friends and Family
**Original Date:** April 30, 2012

Recently, I received a cold letter from someone requesting that I stop writing letters. This person asked that I please cease writing letters and that, instead, I should seek psychological counseling. This person read a letter that was sent to someone else—in essence, invading the recipient's privacy—and read maybe just one or two letters that were simply a part of many years of correspondence. This person thought I was being manipulative because of what I wrote in these letters, which was just a part of who I am: my hopes, my fears, and my adventures. If the content of a letter displeases you, then by all means burn it, or read it as fiction and forget about it. But why ask that I stop writing letters?

I have been in a "moving state" for the past six years, changing homes, friends, and environments about as often as one replaces a toothbrush. Sometimes even I forget where I am, so can you imagine what your friends and family think? The lack of communication that one creates, either intentionally or unintentionally, creates a gap in people's memories about you, and in this gap is where written letters help to form a bridge between those who are close to us and those who are far away.

Writing letters is a great way to keep people informed about what you are up to, what you are feeling, and what your future plans are. It is also a great way to express your love, your gratitude, or even your nostalgia for times that have passed—and it is inevitable to get nostalgic. Traveling and living in foreign countries is fantastic, I must admit, but it is also terribly lonely as well. Sometimes one may find good company that lasts, but when we have one foot in the door and one foot out, keeping good company close can be daunting. It is then that you begin to keep your memories, especially the good ones, closest, and some of the sweetest memories for me are of unconditional love given to me by my friends and family. If you write a letter, you can remind yourself of those times and relive them, reminding you that life has been good and that you have love in your life.

Lists can be lightweight compared to picking up a physical phone. When you live halfway across the world, making a phone call can be a daunting task due to lousy connections and high costs. One would think that free services like Skype would make this somewhat easier, but almost every phone call I have ever made with Skype has a four-second delay, which makes a conversation difficult to have. Having a 12-hour time difference makes timing calls difficult as well, because your day is my night and my night is your day. Sometimes the nerves of calling someone whom you have not called for months might be overwhelming, and it might take much courage to lift the receiver, but writing a letter may come a lot easier, and lifting a pen will always be much lighter.

In this day and age, many people choose to write emails—sometimes mindless notes that are written in haste, sometimes a few words that might say "I love you" or "I don't love you anymore." But actually taking the time to write a handwritten letter is much more complicated than that. First of all, it has to be written by hand. Writing a 10,000-word essay on your computer might take a couple of hours, but doing the same by hand might take you a couple of days. Then you have to locate and purchase an envelope to put said letter in. Finally, you have to purchase postage, which takes a while because post offices almost always have long lines of people wanting to buy stamps. And there is always a catch, always something that bothers you somewhat: the fact that mail gets lost sometimes, and in the case of an important letter, you might have to repeat it all again. Take all of those steps and preoccupations, and you realize that writing a letter takes real effort.

But why would someone go to such extremes to write a letter? You can say anything on paper—anything to your heart's content. You can choose to tell the truth, you can choose to tell lies, or you can choose to create whatever reality you like. As for my letters, they are my way of telling people the truths about my life, whether they are interested or not. Very much like a person chooses to read the sports section but skips over the business section of a newspaper, a person who reads a letter I send may choose to skip over the sad parts and concentrate on the good parts. But in my letters, I write all kinds of things because my life has never been one long streak of happiness after happiness. I have had many laughs, many loves, and many happy times. But I have also had bitter times, hard times, and unhappy times. We all have them. It all depends on how easily we can talk about our problems or our successes. But we can also write letters and talk about our dreams and hopes, and that way, we can share our lives with others.

What saddened me the most about the letter I received asking that I stop writing letters to this other person was that the writer felt I was being manipulative in seeking to rekindle a relationship which has been in embers for many years due to my leaving to explore the world six years ago. The writer felt I was trying to get something in return that was not mine, and that I should not seek affection where there was no blood relation, which makes no difference. It is when we seek to tell each other stories that we try and connect with each other, and even if our stories might not be the happiest or the funniest, we all can welcome the thought that someone is thinking about us—that someone takes the time to write us a letter and that we are kept in someone's heart. If I write you a letter, it means I think of you, and also that I am trying to show my love and affection from a long way away. If I needed money, I would not write a relative; I would write a bank, duh, I'm not that stupid.

Dear reader, just as much as one chooses to read the newspaper or not, one can choose to open a letter or burn it in the fireplace. Even if I do not have a physical address where someone may send me a letter, silence is preferable to hate mail from someone who is not even the original recipient, seeking to break a link that I have sought for a long time to create with someone. Sending letters out into the world is taking a risk—risking the loss of said letters, but also risking the thought that someone who writes you a letter wants something from you.

I expect nothing from the people to whom I write letters. I gladly rejoice when I get acknowledgement that the letters were received, and I even rejoice twice when I get a reply to a letter I might write. Lastly, I must remind you all that communication between us all is not a simple endeavor. For me, to be able to tell what I am up to, what I am dreaming of, and what I am sad about over a ten-minute phone call every now and then is impossible. It is on paper, and in written words, that I find the perfect space to express myself and write the news of my life. If these are sometimes happy and sometimes sad, they are my happiness and my sadness; it is up to you whether or not you choose to share them with me.
