# Depression is Shit
**Original Date:** June 26, 2013

Depression is shit. Depression is like having a ball and chain attached to your ankle, and sometimes it is a warm cave you can retreat into. It is like a secret club that you don't want to tell people about, almost as if you were sworn to secrecy. Depression turns you into a coward and into a maniac, placing everything and everyone on a tipping scale that no one can balance—not even you. It leaves you thirsty for affection, but at the same time, it leaves you afraid of the very affection you crave simply because you never feel like you merit it.

If you're lucky, depression makes you do crazy, wonderful things like jumping out of planes and running marathons, while at other times it can turn you violent. With depression, you never know how tomorrow will be or if something will trigger a bout and send you back to feeling miserable. It is a warm and cozy cave when you want it to be, and a dark and scary place most of the time. We retreat into depression because there we are not expected to be anything but sad, and getting out of that sadness can at times be quite difficult.

There are days when I can't go out. Days when I want to sleep all day and not do anything, and days when I want to scream and shout at everyone that I have depression and that they should love me back to normal. But depression twists the way you see things; it twists things so that you think you don't deserve anyone's love or affection—that what is given is conditional, given only in exchange for something else.

People will tell you that medication helps, and then they forget to tell you that the medicine makes you dumb and slow, rendering you generally less depressed only because you don't reach the same deep lows as before. Or people forget to mention that some of us get addicted to sugar, coffee, melancholy, memories, past relationships, and all the shit that you wish you could rid yourself of—all the things that make you miserable but feed your depression monster, feeding it so fat it never goes away.

Depression can trick you into doing things that keep you trapped there. You keep reminding yourself of your failures, and the victories are never big enough to outweigh the defeats. You take baby steps and rejoice in small victories instead, trying to let everything else go, but the effort and energy needed to overcome the weight don't come so easily.

Depression is like a secret club that you can't tell people about because you're scared they'll think it's a communicable illness and they might catch it from you. Then you have the people who think you'll slit your wrists, throw yourself off a building, or that you are just inherently dangerous to yourself. Those thoughts do come to mind, but most of the time the depression allows you to go on because you rejoice in having more of that warm despair, and more and more until, like an addiction, you can't stop.

I envy people who can be open about their depression. Those of us who have it tend to keep it to ourselves, nodding slightly on the streets to each other, knowing we can't wait to be alone to enjoy the bittersweetness. Or we talk about it in code, rarely ever in positive and reassuring ways, simply because we don't really know how to get out of it; otherwise, we would have done so eons ago.

It takes a lot of effort to accept defeat or to take a loss, except when you have depression. Then, those things tend to come to you naturally. The drive to succeed is slowly drained from you, and you sink and sink and sink. It is easy to accept depression because almost all the news out there is already grim and defeatist, barely speaking of happiness. The more you look toward the future, the more you realize there are things to worry about, making it easier to accept that a lack of color in our futures is a surefire way to feed the depression even more.

I sure do envy people who start their days with a big grin on their faces, waiting to see what the day will bring, waiting to rip the heart out of the competition. Depression makes you think your own heart is up for the ripping, and keeping with the cliché, you wear your heart on your sleeve.

It is difficult to go up to your friends and say, "Hey man, I've got depression and I need your help to get out of it." Why? Most people these days are too busy to hear about each other's problems, let alone offer reassurance to friends who surely need it. If you thought having an STD carried a stigma, try having depression—that sucker never goes away, come rain or shine.

So what do we do when we realize that depression is making a home in our minds and our bodies? At the start, very little, since depression provides a warm feeling of despair and nostalgia that is quite addictive. You think it's just a phase, that you can battle it out, and that you can quit it any day you want to. But on the other hand, most of us let it go on too long, and before we know it, it becomes a nasty stain we can't just wash off. You become slower, your hopes become cloudy, your passions are washed away, and all you really hope for is a warm dose of affection that will inevitably leave you shortly, so that the depression can keep you warm again. Talk about self-destruction.

You look at yourself in the mirror and ask, "What the hell am I doing?" You feel as if you're wasting away and that the promised oyster of a world is an oyster for everyone else but you. People say you need to look for new friends, get company, find a job, exercise, etc. While all these things sound excellent, to reach them and actually do them takes a monumental amount of effort, even for "normal" people.

I am not too sure what I am getting at by writing this. I have a constant fear of people feeling pity for me, and as we all know, boys don't cry. I want to shout at the world that I have depression and that I have it real bad. The way I try to forget about it is by traveling and getting away from myself and my past, in the hope that the depression won't follow suit. But after all is said and done, the depression always comes back and finds me with a vengeance, sticking on with more strength every time it tracks me down. I am not sure how I will beat it this time, but I realize that as afraid as I am of affection and true friendship, I don't think I can go through this alone. I don't think simply ignoring it while continuing to feed it will ever rid me of it.
