# How to Eat Vegetarian Like an Indian
**Original Date:** March 29, 2012

Today, I walked into a little restaurant called *The Nepali Corner*. So far in my quest to find Malaysia's spiciest food, I have only found mild and milder. Seeing Nepali food is a good sign because Nepali food is famous for being extremely hot. I walked into the restaurant and, from first view, it did not amount to much—a few tables and no decoration. Asking for a menu, the waiter took me outside to look at the few pictures of food, and I had to inquire about the taste and price. 

I chose to eat the spiciest dish, of which I have no idea what its name is, but I'll do my best to describe it: a big silver bowl with two copper cups inside and a healthy helping of rice. In one of the cups, there were potatoes in a mild curry, while in the other was a cumin-heavy dish of mutton. Alongside the rice, there were two slices of carrot and a small slice of onion, to be paired with a small slice of lime as an appetizer. The waiter then brought another massive bowl full of rice and another massive bowl (with its accompanying massive spoon) full of *daal*, which is a lentil soup very light on lentils or anything else, but heavy on water. 

I must be honest that I was quite confused as to the hows and whys of the plate of food before me, but I tried my best to appear knowledgeable enough to enjoy my food. Sure, the French may have a million forks and spoons, each with its own special use, but here I had a selection of just a fork and a spoon. I started digging into the rice and was about to bring the bowl of daal to my lips as a soup, but the owners, who had clearly been drinking since 11:00 AM, started laughing hysterically. I ignored them, but they kept on laughing, so I looked at them and smiled! They beckoned the waiter to come and help me out, inexperienced as I am. 

The waiter proceeded to pile even more rice into the big silver bowl and also took the daal and drowned the rice in it. I was wondering why the main dish came in a big bowl, but it was because of the sheer amount of liquid to be had with the rice, keeping it from overflowing and spilling onto your clothes. He then told me, "Eat." 

So I took the spoon and the fork and started to freestyle with my food. A bit of rice here and a bit of mutton, or a bit of potatoes and a bit of mutton, or a spoonful of rice and a spoonful of daal. They continued to laugh, but the food was so good, in whatever combination, that I simply did not care. 

And so, it came down to my last spoonful that I finally realized how to eat this meal I had ordered. And how did I learn? The waiter who poured the daal onto my rice and piled the rice so high I couldn't see in front of me had himself a meal. So they say, monkey see, monkey do. 

Here is how to eat it correctly, if ever you find yourself in a Nepalese restaurant that requires you to know the etiquette of eating it right: First, you pile the rice really high on your plate, then you add the daal until the rice is basically swimming in it. Then, you take your right hand and form a bit of a scoop with it, lean in close to the rice, and then spoon it into your mouth in a swift motion—almost enough rice to make you choke. Indeed, you will notice that your fork and spoon will not be used at all, and if you do use them, you might be taken for a fool. It is crucially important to note that you should always use your right hand when spooning rice into your face. The reason for this is that the left hand is strictly reserved for "dirty tasks" such as taking off your shoes, wiping your backside, or blowing your nose. 

This reminds me of how I used to eat my meals in the south of India. In the south of India, there are many all-you-can-eat restaurants, but these are not like our Western restaurants. Instead, you sit down and in front of you are four little bowls: one with salt, one with sugar, one with spicy Indian pickles, and the other with small, very spicy chilies. The waiter comes by and lays down a banana leaf in front of you, about the size of a large sheet of paper. He then proceeds to spoon a massive amount of rice into the middle. 

The meal is not this simple. Another army of waiters goes around the restaurant with big buckets and big spoons, asking you whether you want some or not. Many of these dishes are indistinguishable from prison slop and differ from one another only in color. There are a few colors that are very tasty, but mostly you will enjoy rice with slop. You are also provided with a small bowl and a cup full of water so you can rinse your hand when it gets too messy. 

When you eat Thali, you also mix and match and try to make a very simple and nutritious meal into something tastier than slop. The waiters come by very often so you can eat to your heart's content, but you will be disappointed if you are a meat-eater, since there will be no trace of meat in a traditional Thali meal. After you're finished, you go wash your hands again for the tenth time and proceed to pay the bill, which will most likely be very small since a Thali meal normally costs about 65 cents. 

And there you go—now you know how to eat with your hands. But please don't tell your mother, and if you are ever in doubt about what to do, just remember to eat with your right hand and wipe with your left!
