# Fun Times in Boston
**Original Date:** April 24, 2012

When you arrive in a place with your suitcase in your hand and your wallet half empty, it is hard to turn around and go back to where you came from. My time in Boston was similar to that, except instead of one suitcase I had two, and instead of a half-empty wallet, I had my bagpipes and a couple of big dreams. 

It was when I was in Israel that I learned that not everyone in the US can afford to pay full tuition for school. Most people get some sort of financial aid that allows them to go to school and get into debt—that is the American dream. And the privileged few who can actually pay full tuition for college choose not to do so simply because aid is available to all. I was told that no matter how rich or how poor you were, you could attend even the most expensive of schools if you were willing to take on the debt. 

Of the many schools that I applied to during my time abroad, I was faced with different options of where to go and how much it would cost me. Of the seven schools I was accepted to, I chose to attend the most expensive of them all: Northeastern University, located in the heart of Boston. For many, the fact that Boston can be a hard city for outsiders is well-known, but at the time, I had no idea it carried such a reputation. I was hopeful and content to know that Boston was a big multicultural city filled with great entertainment, sports, and a rich heritage. What I did not know was that Boston was an expensive city that took care of its own, and that chewed up and spit out newcomers like me who were too ignorant to know this. 

I chose to go to school in Boston because I could not wrap my head around going to a school in a rural setting, which basically means going to school in the middle of a cornfield. I also thought I had some high school friends whom I could count on to give me tips and insights about Boston, thinking they would have already spent a year there trying their best to make ends meet and make friends. What you, dear reader, must know is that I arrived in Boston one year after I had graduated from high school, and one month after I had returned from a fantastic voyage around the world that took me to places like India, Israel, and Latvia. It was during this trip that my mind was filled with wonderful ideas of people helping each other overcome adversities and achieving success. While this is true for most of the world, it did not jive with the people I went to high school with and whom I thought were my friends. 

So let's return to Boston. Boston is a great city full of great history and architecture, a city that breathes stories and character around every corner, and a city that is amazingly attractive. It is a city that is also quite expensive and a tad unfriendly. After my one-year trip around the world, I found myself meeting up with my friends who had moved to Boston straight after finishing high school with me in Mexico City. But these were people who were not like me—hell no! And let me tell you why: I graduated from high school at the prestigious American School in Mexico City, a school of wealth, prestige, and a lot of prejudice. It was also a school of many opportunities for learning, striving, and developing a tolerant character. But being a school of such caliber, the American School was full of children from the wealthiest families in Mexico, and these people were disconnected from the world due to unimaginable wealth that shielded them from breaking a sweat too often. 

My friends in Boston were wealthy, but not wealthy by the usual standards, as their rents, I learned, were $2,500 a month split between three people. They lived in amazing row houses and ate only the best foods. When it came to drinking, they drank only the best gins and the best rums, even if they were all underage at the time. And I was not like them. Living on a tight budget in Boston can be quite straining, and seeing them all living in such luxury broke my heart the first time I saw it. The best I could afford was to live 45 minutes away from the city center in a quaint place called Somerville. Also, I could not afford to wine or dine, and even if I wanted to, I was still underage. So I did what I could, and I found a place that was $400 a month, run by a heavyweight champion from Algeria, and full of nice Arabs I never met. Oh yeah, and I had no heating. My room was all the way at the top of a three-story house, but hey, it was a living. 

I found that home a few days after I received some shocking news regarding my financial package at Northeastern University. Basically, because of my lack of knowledge regarding tax forms in the US, the university thought I was a wealthy person with wealthy parents. They offered me about $2,000 in financial aid, which was practically nothing since the full cost was $50,000 a year. I was expected to cough up $48,000 a year, which is a lot of money. When I protested to the people at the financial aid offices, their answer was that they were sorry, but they could not afford me. Hooray! My dreams were shattered. 

Of course, not every one of my friends was too involved with their own lives to help me or guide me. Thank God I had a good friend, Alberto, who helped me in ways that I will never forget. First and foremost, he opened his home to me at a time when I had nowhere to go or sleep. He even offered to let me take his room while he was away in Mexico for the Yom Kippur high holidays in Mexico City. He had found a good job and, like me, was trying to make ends meet, even if his parents were extremely wealthy. We went to a game at Fenway Park as well and had a great time at the local Chabad, where he was a member. But there was only so much he could do. 

I began to look for work. Scouring my neighborhood for places to work, I must have filled out at least 50 different applications in restaurants, bars, and stores. People began to know me by name and even wished me luck in my job searches. After I had received the bad news from my university, I was convinced I could prove to them I could make enough money to attend classes. Also, my father was not too convinced of my dreams, so I wanted to prove him wrong. But I was a bit foolish, and I had no idea how the system worked. I had no idea that what you do when you apply for a job is not only fill out an application, but you must also come back and insist on them reviewing your application and insist that they call you back, all of this just to show interest. So I just filled out application after application in hopes that I would find the job that would help me go to school. 

One day, I walked into a seafood place that actually had a quiz for an application—a challenging set of questions about food, and I must say I aced it. I met the chef who ran the place and we got along pretty well, but he warned me that all the work he had at the moment was for oyster shuckers, and he thought I should do better than that. He told me he had a Mexican friend who managed a Moroccan restaurant in Harvard Square, which was not too far from where I lived. The place was called *Casablanca*, and that is where I found my first job, given to me by a fellow Mexican. It was not much—a good first job as a food runner, who is someone who takes food to the tables after it is ordered. You help the waiters and waitresses do their job, but really, I was doing the difficult part. It was tough because you had to learn the placement of people and their tables and get their orders exactly right the first time without asking who the food belonged to. It was hard work, but it paid well; the only thing was that it was part-time, only on the weekends. 

The boss then suggested I go try another place where they also needed a food runner—a very fine dining establishment called *Harvest*. There, we were all expected to dress impeccably and wear a black tie to serve the food. Also, the dishes were burning hot and would hurt your hands if you grabbed them without a napkin. One of the funny things I found there was that most of the people who worked there were from Georgia, and they all bragged about stab wounds and past criminal lives, so it was a lot of fun. At one time, I was working eight days a week and putting in a lot of hours trying to find the money to go to school. 

But as the autumn began and the starting date for school drew closer, I realized that I could not generate enough money to pay for school. I realized that no one was going to help me pay my school bills, and that $48,000 is a monumental amount of money. In a day of utter desperation, I spoke to my mom, who suggested I move somewhere else—somewhere where I would have a better chance at success. She suggested I move to Texas to live with my kind uncle, who lived alone and who would hopefully help someone in such a desperate situation as me. And it turned out that he provided me with the opportunity I needed and helped me succeed in Texas, ultimately joining the Honors Program and excelling in school. 

I now realize that I was quite ignorant at the time and that I was facing difficulties I was not prepared for. I was not ready to face a place like Boston. I was not like my friends, so full of themselves and money that they had no problem enjoying their lives in Boston. I was also not ready to face criticism from my parents, but I realized that I had to accept defeat and try again. But how can you accept packing your bags again only after having just opened them?
