# The Wonders of Khao San Road, Bangkok
**Original Date:** March 26, 2012

Khao San Road is the place where most travelers get their first experience of Thailand. Khao San Road is both famous and infamous, and everyone who has the smallest of ties with Thailand knows the name. Khao San Road, a small street off Rama IX, leads nowhere and everywhere at the same time. Short by most standards, it spans about four blocks of bars, shops, guesthouses, and restaurants. 

Khao San Road could be like any other commercial street in the world except for one fact: it changes faces completely between when it is light and when it is dark. 

During the day, Khao San is awash with backpackers of all sizes, shapes, and colors (many of them extremely tan from venturing to Thailand's beautiful islands). These backpackers walk Khao San in search of cheap knockoffs, flip-flops, and Hmong handicrafts. Of course, there are many food stands that offer hungry travelers a taste of everything. The stands offer fruits and shakes, Pad Thai (a Thai noodle dish that has soybean sprouts, noodles, peanuts, and either eggs or shrimp, costing a meager $1.25), falafel, kebabs, and, for the adventurous traveler, insects. There are also some of the international food chains, including Starbucks and two McDonalds, one on each end. Like Hong Kong, there are also shops that offer custom-tailored suits to your liking and price range; most offer suits for $75 that are ready within 24 hours. Walk around more and you will find travel agencies that offer trips anywhere in Thailand and beyond. Many offer the same tours and even have the same name; the only difference is that some offer higher prices than others, especially the ones with foreign staff. 

And finally, my favorite is the sheer amount of fake diplomas and IDs you can get. For about $65 (without haggling), you can get a diploma certifying you in any major or area of study you tell them. The names on their diplomas include various Universities of California, Oxford, and many universities you've never heard of before. For a bit less than that, you can purchase licenses and permits in various fields, ranging from scuba diving to commercial truck driving in Europe. One would be skeptical about buying any of these, but the quality of reproduction is very good, and it takes a trained eye to spot the fakes, as these IDs and diplomas are embossed with official seals and holograms. Some of the magnetic bars even swipe! All in all, Khao San can be a shopper's paradise during the day with great food and great prices on fakes. 

At night is when the fun begins for those with heart enough to stand it. Any guesses on what it turns into? Drinking on the street is public, so the drunks abound, walking around like zombies in search of warm brains. Other than that, the street is completely transformed into a den of excess and confusion. The shops that sold cheap fakes close, and in front of them, a few stands set up shop selling bar foods and blasting high-volume techno music. There are other shops that put up signs for all kinds of medicines that normally need a prescription, such as Valium, Viagra, and Ritalin—all of these to be had cheaply and in quantities dictated by your wallet, not your doctor. 

And now for the fun part: who roams Khao San at night? Yes, drunks, but two other kinds of human species roam: Thai ladyboys offering a friendly wink or a pinch on the bottom, and friendly TukTuk drivers (three-wheeled private taxis that make a lot of noise and prey on foreigners, charging three or four times what locals pay to go places). The TukTuk drivers mean no harm to most of us, but living off commissions, they offer backpackers anything in the realm of the illegal. The way they say hello is by making a popping sound with their mouth (apparently mimicking the noise a vagina makes when popping ping-pong balls), and this noise tells people they can take you to a Ping Pong show, where women perform tricks for the public but offer sad, bored faces while doing them. 

The TukTuk drivers also offer weed, coke, and Thai versions of crystal meth, but most travelers know to stay away from these due to the high risk of being caught and sent to jail; most people tell horror stories about Thai jails and prisons. Finally, the friendly TukTuk driver will offer prostitutes described as a "good girl." As to the age, sex, and legality of these "good girls," most people admit it to be a complete crapshoot, and most foreigners fall prey to these offers. The main danger is being taken to a bar filled with girls where drinks are overpriced, and the patron is made to pay massive fees with their credit cards or else get beaten up by a host of Thai bodyguards or very angry ladyboys. 

Of course, it is not all dangerous fun on Khao San at night. For most of us who come to Thailand to play it safe and have a good time, the bars and discos offer a good opportunity to unwind at very accessible prices. Most of the bars offer buckets of mixed drinks (about 750ml) for $8.25 and good, cold beers for $2.50, which are affordable for most. The range of nightclubs and bars on Khao San includes sleazy "girl" bars where pool is played and there are more girls than guys (and the girls are all there to offer their services), upscale dance clubs, chilled-out reggae bars, expat pubs, and live-music open-space bars where conversation is a must. If one chooses well, a fun night on Khao San without going to jail will cost about $12 and offer a lot of surprises. 

After a while of going around Khao San Road, one will most likely notice three kinds of tourists: sexual tourists, backpackers, and displaced upscale tourists. Most scary of all are the sexual tourists, because many of them have big paunches, wild eyes, and will most likely carry a plethora of STDs as they tour the world looking for prostitutes. Most of us try to keep away from these tourists, as they almost always mean trouble. Backpackers are always around, and of course, there are those of us who shower and those of us who don't. Given that Bangkok is very warm all year round (30 degrees Celsius or so), those who don't shower too often can get very disgusting very quickly. Now, there are also some backpackers who wander Khao San in a different way: hippie burnouts from the '70s. These "travelers" walk around aimlessly and offer wonderful stories of acid trips and drug busts way back when, but will most likely wander aimlessly due to having taken too many drugs and fried their brains. Finally, we come to the upscale, misplaced tourists. Because Khao San Road is a wonderful hub for traveling almost anywhere in Southeast Asia, they hang around, buying the wares sold at Khao San, paying too much for them, and grabbing the occasional drink or two. Most often, they don't bother hanging out with backpackers because most of us are borderline poor, or because we don't smell too fresh coming straight onto Khao San from traveling throughout Thailand. Overall, it's a good mix of people on Khao San Road. 

Let's conclude by seeing what Khao San really is: a massive hub and place of exchange where many people come and go every day, and what is here today might not be here tomorrow, or even tonight. As I said, Khao San is quite a short road, but with small alleyways leading to and from it, it is no surprise one can see many worlds come and go every hour. Add to that the number of banks and money changers, and you have a great place to be if you are a traveler. It is advised that exposure to Khao San for long periods of time can be harmful, so make sure you don't spend too much time there. Some people hate Khao San Road because of the decadence, the shady atmosphere, and the grungy rooms offered there. Some love it for its mixing and matching, for its bargains, and for the fact that it is so well connected despite its location in Bangkok. Any journey to Thailand should begin and end on Khao San; after all, my Khao San and your Khao San will never be one and the same thing.
