# The Land of Make Believe
**Original Date:** March 3, 2012

So it is true that China is a land of wonders—a place where your imagination can run free and where your money takes you so far that you struggle to go back home and not miss the purchasing power most foreign people enjoy here. As a foreigner in China, you learn to love the kinds of things that make it a great place to live: the food, the cheap transportation, the sights, and sometimes the sounds. Living in China as a foreigner can sometimes be very tiresome and can lead you into a slow insanity, but if you learn to be peaceful and ingenious at the same time, that advantage can keep you sane. Still, we always look for things to keep us grounded, and for things that remind us of home or the things we miss the most—like Froot Loops, in my case. 

Sometimes in China, you can get a lucky break. Sometimes you can find the products that have always brought a smile to your face, like Vegemite for Australians or A1 sauce for Americans. Sometimes we smile and praise God when stores stock some obscure foreign brand seeking popularity in China, and sometimes we cry when their efforts go unrewarded. There are times when we feel we've found gold mines, finding products we forgot from our childhood dreams of yesteryear. Sometimes these products were banned in our homelands due to excess sugar content or dubious ingredients, but somehow they bypass those regulations and make it to China safe, sound, and CHEAP! 

But sometimes there are things that are hard to find in China that never make their way here. Sometimes we resort to making them ourselves, from good old brownies and hummus to the occasional slice of cheese we have concocted using the most primitive of methods. Sometimes we succeed and sometimes we don't, leaving us to wonder when we will be lucky enough to have those items delivered to China. It must be said that this is not the case for people living in Beijing or Shanghai, because there are so many foreigners in those two cities that there are markets for instant brownies and good beer; but for those of us in smaller cities, we wait and wait and wait. 

And yet, sometimes we are surprised when the occasional Chinese entrepreneur churns out some sort of Western product we love! In Harbin, due to Russian influence, they sell pickles and sausages in most of the corner stores. In Xi'an, there is a bakery close to my house that makes the best chocolate moon pies. Sometimes I can buy German beer at a discount because the local Chinese population cannot afford it or do not like it. All is well when you buy these products because you see that you can share the tastes or preferences you love with the Chinese—until the second before you bite into whatever you have just bought. 

The jar of pickles that glistens on your counter and makes you think of Jewish delis and grandmothers with a lust for garlic turns sour when your first bite tastes of paint thinner, sour lemons, and old age. Or the fantastically cheap beer selling for 45 cents per 3/4 liter that gives you a dreadful hangover after drinking just a couple, and your friends tell you the formaldehyde content is higher than the alcohol. The Guinness we occasionally find in stores tastes more like vinegar than beer. Never mind the sausages you can buy during the weeks before Spring Festival, or Chinese New Year, that look like the sausages or brats that bring joy and delight to hungry grillers and their starving families. Grilling one of these puppies will show you what getting a reality check is all about; what you thought was meat, you now realize is something more like soap remnants. 

It is not just in food that we are miraged and swindled at the same time. In Harbin, there is the magnificent Ice Festival that features beautiful ice sculptures that glow at night and dazzle the eyes. But what lies behind can be a little scary. The ice that stands so tall is made in factories because the water in the river is too polluted. And the admission fee of more than $50 prohibits all but the richest Chinese from actually seeing the magnificent buildings and statues. From most of the people I spoke to, it seems the Ice Festival is reserved for tourists and for tourists only. There is more to that than meets the eye if one tries to scratch beneath the surface. 

But we don't want to scratch the surface very often, because we are scared of what we may find. The cheap goods we can buy and the cheap rents we pay are very precarious. The products are made to fail after not very long, and the buildings stand because God is great. There are many examples of recent buildings that, though only a few years old, look decrepit and are falling to pieces from the inside out. The price of a bustling economy that churns out millions of products every day is that it does not have the luxury of creating quality along with its quantity, and that proves to be a problem in most areas of our day-to-day lives; yet we are all somehow fooled. 

Take, for example, a bicycle I recently bought: a mountain bike for $120 new, with many bells and whistles. I thought I had gotten a great bargain—disc brakes and shocks in the front. Within a few days, the brakes began making noise and the shocks began leaving a streak of oil. When I complained to the seller, he told me the noise was normal and that the streak of oil was just from the springs inside the shock absorber casings. I thought they were oil shocks and were leaking; it turns out they are just springs hidden inside an outer casing. It seems things are always hiding from view. Yesterday, as I climbed into a cable car to cross the river here in Harbin under sub-zero weather, the area where a space heater should go was empty, and the windows did not close all the way. An enjoyable sightseeing adventure turns into a ride in a very high icebox, with the possibility of being cryogenically frozen if you pay for a return ride. 

What it is, then, is that our food, our drink, and our homes are all very far from what they seem. Though they might appear modern and stylish, and are considerably cheaper than in our home countries, they are only so because they answer to no authority, to no scruples, and to only the notion of creating things that can be sold in mass numbers. When I was told I could buy a fake iPhone for something around $50 or so, I was surprised at the possibility of owning such a powerful and desired device for so little. But as the old saying goes, "You get what you pay for." Many of those fake iPhones self-destruct like messages in *Mission: Impossible*. Those that do not are so slow and unresponsive that it is like having a turtle that has been turned upside down in your pocket—the potential to be something great, but instead flapping its limbs endlessly to no end. 

Having lived here for a while has made me a little wiser and a little more cautious about buying such things. But when I see a jar of pickles and am suckered by its promise of garlic breath and tasteful delight, I can't do anything but whip out my money and say yes. Maybe next time I'll have to ask myself if I would rather have the dream or the heartbreak.
