# I've Always Wanted to Run Away from Home
**Original Date:** June 20, 2012

Ever since I can remember, I always wanted to run away from home. I always had the feeling that I could make it out in the streets. I remember watching cartoons where characters run away, tying all their possessions into a big bundle on a stick. They would just wander off into the distance and hang out with colorful fellows wearing fingerless gloves who had their own stuff on a stick just like them! I could not get my hands on a stick, but I surely did get my hands on a Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles fanny pack, which I thought would suit me just fine.

Homeless people in Mexico City don't fare well at all. They spend most of their time asking for money, and when they're trying to forget their realities, they sniff solvents or glue and try to smile. I was not sure where I would eventually end up if I ran away, but I imagined maybe I'd end up selling chewing gum on street corners. It isn't the world's best profession, but at least it pays the bills.

I must have been six years old when I packed all my things into that fanny pack and decided that one day, I would head off into the streets—only to return someday later when my father would no longer scold me for the things I had done wrong. The things I put in that fanny pack were a cap gun, one cigarette (my dad would notice if I had taken more, and I knew homeless people smoked, so I wouldn't make a good homeless person if I didn't smoke myself), a lighter, a small pocket knife, a flashlight, a compass, a toothbrush, and I think that was it! I was hoping to pack a couple of snacks for the road just in case I got hungry before learning how to forage food from trash cans—even though in Mexico City, there aren't many trash cans to begin with.

I was not sure when I would head out, but I planned for an early morning start, around 3:00 AM or so. I was used to waking up that early anyway because I loved watching cartoons that were broadcast on Eastern Time.

I wanted to run away because I have always been a little bit too sensitive to the things people say or do, and sometimes—well, always—take things at face value. It's the reason why I don't get sarcasm sometimes, or why when someone is joking around, I miss the joke. My father has always been fond of strong language, and even though most of the time he does not mean what he says, the execution makes anyone who does not know him think otherwise. It is not that my dad says things to intentionally offend you, but they certainly make your ears hurt and your heart stop; you just have to laugh it off and hope for the best.

I still have a hard time shrugging off some of the things my father says, let alone laughing them off. This is something I have never been good at. If, at 26, I still have a hard time shrugging off the things he says, imagine being 6 years old, when those words would shoot straight like arrows into my mind. I could not take criticism from him, my mother, or my brother (thank God the other brother never criticized me much). I think for most people it is difficult to take criticism, but I just thought I could run away from it all, and if someone tried to stop me, I would just be standing there, smoking my one cigarette and smiling.

It is really funny the things you think about when you are getting ready to run away from home. I was thinking of ways to take a shower, and of course, I thought about park fountains. I wondered what I would do with my free time, thinking I could walk to new places, see the city, meet other runaways like me, and maybe read a book or two. I also thought long and hard about what would happen if I got caught, and what I could do so as to never get caught. I realized then that changing my name would not be much help because my face would stay the same. I also thought about places to hide and neighborhoods to live in. I could not make up my mind about when to leave exactly, even though I came quite close.

So how come I never left? First of all, back then I did not have my own set of keys, and my father would lock the front door and the gate every night, encasing me in a very effective prison. I did not want to leave through the garage door because that would leave it open for people to come in and steal all of my father's clocks, and maybe my small collection of Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles as well.

Second, I thought a lot about the people I would miss. I was so confused about things that I often thought no one would ever miss me, but I knew I would miss my dog, Daphne, so much that it actually brought tears to my eyes just thinking about leaving her. I considered taking her with me, but I knew that real dogs were not like the protective, all-powerful dogs in the movies that accompany runaway children. I thought about many people I would miss, and well, the list just kept growing until I couldn't leave because I feared I would never see any of them again.

I left my fanny pack ready for any real situation where I might actually have to run away, and I never had the heart to unpack it. I think I still have it somewhere. Whenever my father would make me cry and feel ashamed of myself, I would find comfort in knowing that I *could* run away from all of it—that all I needed to do was grab my fanny pack and walk out the door. Now that I've spent so much time away from home, I do miss the people I knew I would miss then. Strangely enough, the people I miss the most are my family—the very people I thought I was going to run away from in the first place.
