# The Story About the Thieves in the Night
**Original Date:** March 29, 2012

I went to Thailand in search of a place where people are friendly, food is cheap, and smiles are everywhere. Thailand is definitely all of that and more, and I have always been very fortunate in finding the Thai people to be great hosts within their own country and beyond. 

On this trip to Thailand, I decided to visit my first love in the world of cities that I have traveled to over the past six years, and that was Chiang Mai, affectionately known as the Rose of the North. Chiang Mai is famous for its hill tribes, its culinary delights, and the fact that it is a small, welcoming city that is easily traversed by foot. Chiang Mai is also famous for being the gateway to the north of Thailand—a sort of well-beaten path that leads to the mountains up north and the neighboring countries of Laos and Myanmar. 

This time around, I decided that I would leave Bangkok in the most convenient way possible: walking down Khao San Road and buying tickets for a private bus that would go nonstop to Chiang Mai, about ten hours away. The tickets were priced well, and the travel agent promised a nice bus, so the tickets were bought and our bums were placed on the seats. As with everything in Thailand, the time of departure was scheduled for 6:00 PM but we ended up leaving at 7:30 PM—understandably, "Thailand late." 

We got on the road and briefly stopped at a roadside café around 11:00 PM. Some people got refreshments, and I went to take a piss. After a little while, we all hopped back on the bus and resumed our journey. *Apocalypto* was playing on the TV, and the AC was freezing my bones solid, but in a country where most days are well over the 32-degree Celsius mark, becoming a popsicle is a welcome phenomenon. As we all gingerly fell asleep, we hoped Chiang Mai would be just around the corner. 

Except it wasn't. 

Sometime around 4:30 AM, we were woken up as the overhead lights on the bus flashed on. There was a guy wearing normal street clothes telling us to check our things—that we had been robbed and that we should check all of our belongings. Being that we did not really recognize this person and given the early hour, we were quite confused as to why he was saying this. He got off the bus, and then we waited for about ten minutes until someone else boarded. This time, it was a uniformed policeman who smelled strongly of whiskey. 

We were even more confused, but when the policeman got on the bus, some people began saying that they were missing things like their cell phones or cash. Looking through my bag, I found nothing missing, but slowly, people all over the bus were reporting missing items. We were told to check all of our luggage and got off the bus to do so. 

Opening our luggage showed how all of our things had been gone through, and how even more things were missing. Gladly, I did not have anything of value in my luggage, so I was not too scared to find a piece of clothing missing or my flashy electric toothbrush. In fact, everything was there, and more! In my backpack, I found a really long gold chain that clearly did not belong to me. It was a chain that was clearly fake gold, but still, I shouted to the policemen who had stopped the bus that this chain in my luggage was not mine. 

The policemen explained the situation to us. These buses, which leave from Khao San Road, are not licensed and are operated by freelance bus drivers. They offer lower prices than the ones from the official bus station because they make their profits off ripping tourists off. Most buses have two drivers, since few people want to drive ten hours straight on Thai roads, which are not the best in the world. So having two drivers is a normal occurrence; however, two drivers means one driver can navigate the road while the other one can go down into the luggage compartment from the inside and go through people's bags. 

This was all explained to us by many more friendly policemen, who also smelled of whiskey and had random bits and pieces of uniforms. What it all came down to was that we were to board a different bus—one that would take us to Chiang Mai—because the bus we were in and the drivers were going to be detained. As we boarded the new bus with worried and tired faces, we learned that many other people on the bus reported items and money as stolen; those people would stay behind to testify. 

As a last surprise, one of the police officers came onto the new bus holding a handful of jewelry and cell phones, apparently stashed away on the other bus and stolen from travelers who, like us, had no idea what was going on. Our new, hopefully safer, bus left the scene, and we all wanted to get some sleep. While some did, I was kept awake by some Germans bantering on about some unintelligible thing and how horrible it all was. I wished then that I knew how to say in German, "I've just been through a pretty damn awful experience and want some rest; would you be so kind as to shut the fuck up and let me sleep." Sadly, I only know how to say *"Bier, bitte,"* which is hardly appropriate, as that just means "Beer, please."
