# To Lose a Mother (and Then Get Her Back Again)
**Original Date:** June 1, 2012

I remember it as the pains my mother got one day—pains in her legs that never went away, keeping her up at night crying and screaming. Pains none of us could do anything about. Or maybe it was the time my mother fainted in the bathroom and miraculously suffered little harm; it was then that I offered my motorcycle helmet for her to wear wherever she went.

I think I've got it now. It was right after my mother took me to the big mountain range in northern Mexico. Yes! It was then that my mother took me to see some fat Germans and a couple of wealthy Mexicans on a magical train ride into the Copper Canyon after a night in beautiful Chihuahua. Well, the fat Germans were there anyway, and so were the old folks, but the Copper Canyon is a majestic sight reachable by riding on a train for days and days. It must have been the height of my 18 years of age, and riding around in a train for many days was not as interesting as I thought it would be. Train rides are for chilling out and hanging out drinking a glass of wine or two, and at eighteen, the last thing I wanted to do was to sit down and relax. We rode many trains and spent the night in places with names I'd never heard of—desolate places up in the mountains that had indigenous people who were not to be seen or heard, because we were tourists on a tour and not supposed to mess with them.

I remember that right after that beautiful, if a bit boring, trip, my mother began to get sick. Not sick in the way that one gets a cough and a sneeze and then gets better; no, this was a mysterious illness that struck her shortly after we returned from Chihuahua. It was something we could not understand and definitely did not expect. My mom began screaming at night from the pains in her legs. She had fevers and chills, and we were so confused that we had no idea how to help her. I had school, homework, and high school duties to attend to, and I was deeply unsettled by my mother's wails at night. My mother has always had a knack for theatrics, and at first, I thought this was another one of her famous and quite effective performances. I was naive, utterly unbalanced by my good grades at school but experiencing an overall unhappiness from not having found love there.

She screamed and screamed at night and was given different medicines to calm her down, to help her move, to help her sleep, to help her eat. The amount of medicines she was being given was endless, and our maid, who has always been somewhat of a healer herself, also provided a few remedies of her own. But nothing we did made any difference, and my mother was rapidly weakening.

One day she was taken to the hospital in critical condition. I was told she was on the brink of life and death, and I was like, *yeah sure, my mom's never gonna pass away, and who are you to tell me that about my mom?* But it was true. She was weakening and getting sicker, and we knew not how to help her. Doctors at the hospital were confused as to what was causing her condition to worsen. She was there for days, being pumped full of even more medications, until one doctor announced he had found what was ailing her. He said it was a rare disease called *Leptospirosis*, which is transmitted through rat urine commonly found on old cans of soft drinks in big warehouses, or basically any items stored where rats live. Leptospirosis causes symptoms of an extremely upset stomach, diarrhea, aches, and pains, and is sometimes called a "ghost pneumonia" because it mimics all the symptoms of pneumonia without actually being it. Cases are extremely rare, so very few people are able to diagnose or treat it. The doctor who diagnosed it said he was able to cure it, and true to his word, he pumped my mom full of medical steroids. For a short while, she started getting better.

And then she got worse.

I do not quite remember who discovered it or how, but the cancer was there, attacking my mother and making her sick. The doctor who said she had Leptospirosis became enemy number one for the misdiagnosis. My mother went in for a million different tests to try and see what kind of cancer it was and how it could be cured. No one was completely sure at first, and the suspense became unbearable. Here was my once healthy, strong mother, now succumbed to an illness that was eating her away, and we could not stop it. It was then that I started fearing losing my mother more than the time she first went to the hospital, more than the time she left me at the zoo when I was two—more than one ever wants to think about losing a mother. When you actually have to face that thought, it breaks your heart, turns your morale to dirt, gives you nightmares, and makes you very, very afraid.

After a million tests, it was certified, sealed, and confirmed: my mother had lymphatic cancer, and her treatment would be a long and costly one. There is comfort in a correct and definitive diagnosis, but there is no comfort in cancer. There can never be comfort in that. But at least now we could point our fingers at a culprit, hate it with all our hearts, wish it to disappear, ask questions about percentages and possibilities, and pray for the end of it. As mere mortals, we had no idea how to rid ourselves of the cancer that was going to fight within my mother to take her with it. We read, learned, asked, and called about cancer until it was the only thing on our tongues and in our minds.

Cancer is a feisty beast that takes many people every year, but I was not going to let it take my mother away—even if, in reality, I was so afraid that I reacted in anger against everything and everyone because I thought I had caused it. I thought that her taking me to the Copper Canyon had begun the process that was now not destined to stop at will or go down without a mighty fight. What no one tells you about fighting cancer is that the medications and treatments don't just attack the cancer; they also wreak massive havoc on healthy cells and healthy organs, turning even the strongest people into shadows of their past existences. Cancer treatment is like going to a funhouse and entering the hall of mirrors: looking into one, you see yourself without hair, having lost a lot of weight, taking on a pale and exhausted look with nothing to laugh about.

The cancer had also affected my mother's legs, and she had difficulty walking around the house or getting in and out of the car. I was devastated because I could not carry her; I could not lift her into my strong arms and help her out. Everyone fights cancer in different ways, but I was fighting demons, fears, and other evils that lived inside of me—evils that would ultimately alienate me from my mother. She had to go to the hospital monthly for her chemotherapy sessions, which none of us liked to talk about. During these sessions, she would be hooked up to a weird machine, put on an IV, and then the medication—brought to her neatly wrapped in aluminum foil—was injected into her frail body. We would wait by her side in awful waiting rooms full of nurses and doctors who came and went, rarely exchanging a word with us.

After a couple of months of treatment, my mother underwent surgery to get an internal port put into her chest so the doctor could administer the treatment straight without having to stick her veins every time. I remember seeing this thing on my mother's chest and wondering if it was painful or did something special, but it was just a more direct and efficient way for the doctors to pump chemo chemicals into her body.

In hospitals, they charge you for everything. No tissue goes unaccounted for; no breath you take is free, it seems. And then my mom hated their shampoo, which gave her a nasty rash. After a few visits, you learn to bring your own stuff—just like when your mom takes you to the movies and whips out sandwiches, soft drinks, and candy from under her coat. That is what we started doing. You bring your own towels and your own soap, and if you could, you'd bring your own nurses too.

I never asked about the costs involved in her treatments. I remember some of them were administered in expensive hospitals with fancy names that promised to be better than anywhere else. I realized then that even the big-name hospitals look the same inside, and after visiting them so many times, you get confused as to which hospital you're even in. I do remember my parents fighting over money, over how to pay the bills, bickering incessantly about financial matters.

One of the few occasions when we were temporarily reminded that we were not alone in this fight was when we went to have lunch at my uncle Albert's house, who was a cousin of my father's but treated him like a brother. After we had lunch, Albert called us back into a side dining table they had and told us all to sit down. In the room were my mother, my father, my uncle Philip (Albert's brother), my aunt Nina (Albert and Philip's mother), and I. Albert stood up before us all and said that whatever we were going through at the moment, we were a family, and families stick together through illness and hardship. He said that he viewed and felt of my father as his own brother, and as such, my mother was his sister, and he would never let his sister go through hardship alone. He assured us we were family and that he would make sure we were taken care of and helped, regardless of what we needed. I remember my mother shedding tears, and I felt so proud of my uncle for saying something as wonderful as that. They all looked at us as if we were in it together.

A few months later, my uncle Albert died. My father was devastated because Albert had passed away inside a hospital from a heart attack that could have been easily prevented and stopped then and there, but wasn't. I was devastated not only to lose an uncle but because I feared that now we truly were all alone.

My aunt Adriana was also there for us quite often, and I remember how well she treated my mom, taking her on trips to faraway places to show her a nice time when it all began to get monotonous and boring, especially since my mom did not leave the house very often. Because she couldn't leave the house often, we had to get rid of all the animals at home, which was devastating for my father. But I think what hit him worse was having to get rid of most of his grandfather clocks—and trust me, he had more than just a few. He must have spent more than twenty years collecting and repairing all of those grandfather clocks that, at every hour of the day or night, were synchronized to make a racket and a half. When those were gone, the eerie silence in the house became unbearable. When we got rid of the animals, we also gave away an array of birds of paradise that my dad had been collecting for many years; in the mornings, they would wake us all up in a racket comparable to the grandfather clocks, if a little less mechanical.

The cancer treatment turned my mother into someone I could hardly recognize. First of all, she could barely walk. The steroids given to her during the Leptospirosis scare had made her bloated; her face had more cheeks and bulk. And, of course, she began losing her hair. She lost it slowly until one day she asked to have it all cut off so she wouldn't have to watch it fall out strand by strand. Let us recap: my mother's face was different, her hair was gone, and she could not walk anymore. I wouldn't have been able to spot her even if she was the only one standing in an open field wearing a bright yellow jacket. She had so little energy—little energy to move around, to talk, to eat, or to be a mom—but she sure tried her best.

The monotony of hospitals and treatments took a little over a year to finish, and it could not have come any sooner. During the time my mom had her treatments, we delved into the occult as well. My mother hired a shaman to come cleanse her and give her counseling, though after a few sessions, my mom did not call her back. I prepared a marijuana balm for my mother to soothe her aching bones, but that didn't work as I had no idea what I was doing. My mom got a couple of wigs and started wearing makeup to make herself look pretty, and I was stupid enough to say I liked her best without all that artificial stuff on. To top it all off, we regained some of our earlier fervor in Judaism and kept in close touch with the rabbi. My mother prayed, my father prayed, and pretty much everyone else around us prayed; I'm pretty sure even our maid prayed to the Virgin Mary. I prayed my mother would get better soon, but I wasn't sure anyone was listening to all of our prayers.

It was not that the cancer was tearing my mother apart or keeping all of us closer; if anything, it alienated us in a spiral of fighting words and tense times. Harsh words were exchanged many times—more times than what would be deemed healthy. I think we were all trying to find someone to blame while trying to find comfort in each other. I even blamed my brother for having gone away to travel for a year, even though he was guilty of nothing. None of us were guilty of anything, but tension can create an unhealthy environment where anything can become a good reason for a fight. But fighting with each other does not make the cancer go away, nor does it make the chemo sessions come any faster or the bills disappear.

On the financial side, the bills kept piling up and there was little money around. My mother would do her shopping by phone and complain that she could not go to the supermarket and pick the best fruit herself. The delivery guys were always shady and bonkers, never coming at the time they said they would. It was when we thought we were losing it all that great help came our way, when the very gracious and kind-hearted Katharine Miller decided to help us with the bills—and boy, did that help! We will always be grateful to her for helping out in such a big way. For a second there, we thought we could beat this cancer once and for all; we thought we were over it, and we almost were.

The cancer treatments lasted for a bit over one year, but all in all, it must have been almost two years that my mother was in and out of hospitals, seeing different doctors, taking medications, and receiving numerous injections. I remember that after the doctors said my mother was clear for now, or in remission, we decided to clean out the medicine cabinet, which was absolutely full of all kinds of medications! There were things for nausea, pain, headaches, inflammation, thirst, hunger, hair loss, hair gain, cramps, depression, anxiety, etc. There were as many boxes as there are letters in the alphabet, and it wasn't just one box of every kind, but numerous boxes of the same kind. Having no insurance meant that all of these boxes were worth their weight in gold, and having to get rid of them proved quite daunting.

But to beat cancer is not permanent. No doctor will say to you that the cancer is gone forever or that you are now immune and it will never dare rear its ugly head again. No, cancer can always come back. Cancer can come back with a vengeance. Once you are cleared, you are classified as "in remission," which really means you have to go see the doctor ever so often to make sure it has not returned, which is quite likely in some cases. We have all been very lucky that my mother's cancer has taken a hike and has not dared to pay another visit.

After two years, the cancer treatment left my mother looking and acting like a very frail bird—one that you find on the sidewalk and take home to feed and nurture until it can fly away. My mother could barely walk, and that was a big shock to her because she used to take long, brisk walks daily. Her hair was all gone, and when it came back, there was little color left. Because of the steroids and the chemotherapy, she was left extremely bloated, and it took a really long time for her face to look the same as it did before. And lastly, the fatigue that my mother felt from the constant influx of medication every month began to recede, and she came back a lioness.

It was after the cancer battle was fought and won, after the cancer was gone, that my mother came back with a vengeance. She must have felt that her life was ending because when she began feeling better, she started doing all the things she had put off for the future. Things like taking trips, seeing her friends, getting rid of old clothes, remodeling the house, cleaning up the building, and especially doing her own thing, with or without our support. I remember how happy she was that she could now do her own shopping and not have to be at the mercy of the delivery man. How she went to work looking like she was the best person to do the job, and how she would not put up with my father smoking near her.

The energy my mother came back with made her into a new mom—one that would not take no for an answer or wait for things to happen. She became the master of her destiny and the change she wanted to see. As you can see, the battle with cancer was not a fun one at all, and I think it rarely is. I can't say it united us in any way other than that we were family and we had to do what we had to do; we never gave up hope. It was difficult to see my mother in such bad shape, and there were times when I forsook her, thinking my adolescent woes were more important than showing affection and care for my mother. I don't think I'll ever forgive myself for that. But it also showed me how important it is to have people who care for you, and how important it is to remember that we are not the invincible beings we think we are. My mother left her fear of death behind when she began her treatment and regained a sense and fullness for life I had never seen before. My father bore all the burdens with pride, even though he did kvetch—a lot. And we all fought together as a family, and as a family, we won.
